Bread means life. [The word for bread in Arabic is also a word for life].
And liberty, security and independence.
And it is of the social, political and economic priorities
in our culture since Pharaonic times
Its price was always correspondent to our economy
It has always been the first signifier of crisis or thrive
For example, in 1977, Cairo was shaken by what's referred to as the Bread Intifada
Which happened after a 50% spike in the price of bread
It also makes sense that the 25 January revolution in 2011
Raised the slogan "Bread, Liberty, and Social Justice"
The pharaohs baked it out of emmer wheat
Its closest living relative is Shamsi [pertaining to the sun] bread
Which is fermented and baked in sunlight
And there is evidence that it was the food of pyramid builders
And that bread bakeries were a component of the infrastructure for this ancient Egyptian megaproject
During Ottoman times
The government subsidized bakeries, and placed quality control laws on bread production
Which was sold to the masses at the time
Which led to a boom for bakeries
At the time, bakers organized, and had a syndicate and a marketplace
Shamsi bread is still present in Upper Egypt
But it is endangered
Because it takes time to ferment and bake
and mechanizing its production is next to impossible
Unlike contemporary Baladi [pertaining to the country] bread
Which is baked fast and high on an assembly lline
and is sold from government funded bakeries in massive quantities every day
And Bahari [pertaining to the sea] bread, which is baked in Alexandria, the Delta, and the North Coast
Which looks like Shami [pertaining to the Levant]
Bread is present in many Egyptian recipes
Like Fatta and Hawawshi
And it's a staple of Egyptian dining tables
We use it to dip Molokheya
or make foul and taameya sandwiches
Our love for it is not a choice
It is dependency
Because it's cheap, nutritious, and widely available
but especially great when it's warm and fresh
What is the weirdest thing you've eaten in a sandwich?
Tell us in the comments, and don't forget to like and subscribe for more from D-Tabkha